
GR DIRECTORY -- files for graph manipulation
--------------------------------------------

Note:  These files are not currently compiled into Zoltan.
I'm fairly sure that the graph manipulation routines work
for both hash-table and AVL-tree implementations.
The import/export routines are not well tested, however;
I suspect much of their functionality can be replaced by
Bruce and Steve's unstructured communication package.


gr.c              --  Code to take Chaco-style input and build a graph using
                      the graph data structures.
gr_const.h        --  Definition of graph data structures.  Contains pointers
                      to functions that are used in manipulating graphs; these
                      pointers are set to the appropriate functions for a 
                      given implementation of graphs (e.g., hash tables or
                      trees).


gr_hash.c         --  Graph manipulation functions for graphs implemented as
                      hash tables.
gr_hash_const.h   --  Data structure definitions for hash-table implementation
                      of graphs.   Prototypes for external functions.
gr_list.c         --  Linked list manipulation routines for manipulating the
                      buckets of hash tables.
gr_list_const.h   --  Prototypes for hash bucket manipulation routines.


gr_tree.c         --  Graph manipulation functions for graphs implemented as
                      AVL trees.
gr_tree_const.h   --  Data structure definitions for AVL-tree implementation
                      of graphs.   Prototypes for external functions.


gr_type.c         --  Initialization routine for new graphs.  Sets graph
                      function pointers appropriately depending upon the
                      graph implementation chosen.
gr_type.h         --  Sets a global variable indicating which graph 
                      implementation option is to be used (e.g., hash tables
                      vs. AVL trees).
gr_type_const.h   --  Contains enumerated type for graph implementation options


gr_util.c         --  Graph manipulation utilities; currently contains only
                      print_graph.
gr_util_const.h   --  Prototypes for routines in gr_util.c.


gr_import.c       --  Routines for importing vertices into a processor's graph.
                      These routines are not tested; I suspect their
                      functionality will be replaced by the unstructured
                      communication package.
gr_export.c       --  Routines for exporting vertices from a processor's graph.
                      These routines are not tested; I suspect their
                      functionality will be replaced by the unstructured
                      communication package.

