NOTE: new_package is under construction!!

Useful Terminology:
	new package - A package to be added to the Trilinos Autotools
			configure/build process.
	new_package - The directory structure that this README file resides in.
			new_package serves as a guide for adding new packages
			to the Trilinos Autotools configure/build process.

	np - The generic name for a new package that is used 
			throughout this README.  The source code for np will be
			located in Trilinos/packages/np.  
	autotool'ed

The Trilinos/packages/new_package package was created as a tool for developers
wishing to utilize the Autotools configure/build process for a new or existing
package.  Before beginning this process, approval must be obtained from the
Trilinos Project Leader.

There are five general steps that need to be followed to add a new package to
the Trilinos Autotools configure/build process.  Note that these steps do not
have to be completed in the exact order listed below, nor does a step 
necessarily have to be completed in its entirety before moving onto the next
step.  (For example, a portion of a library can be autotool'ed and tested
before work begins on the rest of the library.)  The five steps are listed
below.

1. Write the non-generated files necessary for Autoconf and Automake.

Examples of all of the new, non-generated Autoconf and Automake files
required to add a packages to the Trilinos Autotools configure/build process 
are located within the new_package directory structure.  Most of these files
will need to be customized for each new package.  See the individual example 
files for more details.  Instructions for customizing are listed behind 
'#np#'.
(Details for all files not yet available.)  

2. Create generated Autoconf and Automake files.

Before starting this phase, please see Trilinos/config/AutotoolsVersionInfo
and obtain the correct version of both Autoconf and Automake.

After customizing the necessary Autoconf and Automake files, cd to the top 
level of the new package and type 'bootstrap'.  This command will generate
files necessary for the configure and build processes.  Each of these files
MUST be added to the repository with a 'cvs add'.  The bootstrap should
complete without any errors, however, at this time it is not uncommon to have
the following warnings:

configure.ac:63: warning: do not use m4_patsubst: use patsubst or m4_bpatsubst
configure.ac:341: warning: do not use m4_regexp: use regexp or m4_bregexp

These warnings will be fixed in the future.

3. Connect the new package to the Trilinos Autotools configure/build process.
   (Establish build default=no)

This step involves...

4. Perform tests and request new Mailman lists.



5. Change build default to 'yes'

This step requires the separate approval of the Trilinos Project Leader!

Not all Trilinos packages should be configured and built by default.  Consult
with the Trilinos Project Leader for more information.

If approval to build by default is granted, ...
