Autotools Version

Currently, bootstrapping Trilinos requires Autoconf version 2.53 and Automake
 version 1.5.  Please do not use older or newer versions as this can cause 
problems for developers who are using officially supported version.

To check the versions on your machine, type 'autoconf --version'
('automake --version').

To check the version of Autoconf used most recently, check the top lines 
of configure.  (If this does not match the version listed above, either 
someone used the wrong version, or this file is out-of-date.)

To check the version of Automake used most recently, check the top lines
of Makefile.in.  (If this does not match the version listed above, either 
someone used the wrong version, or this file is out-of-date.)

To upgrade, a user must have root access.

Upgrading Autoconf
NOTE: GNU M4 (version 1.4 or later) and perl (5.005_03 or later) are required
before configuring Autoconf.
Go to 'http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/autoconf/
Download either autoconf-2.53.tar.gz or autoconf-2.53.tar.bz2.
(If upgrading from 2.52, one can choose to download the 
autoconf-2.52-2.53.xdelta patch.)

Untar the tarball that was downloaded.  cd into autoconf-2.53.
Instructions for what to do next are located in the README and INSTALL files.

For most cases, the following short version of the instructions will suffice.

First, decide where to install autoconf.  (When upgrading, rewriting the old
version is recommended.)  To install autotools in /PATH/bin, type
'./configure --prefix=PATH'.  If the configure completes sucessfully, type
'make install'.  To check if the install was successful, type 
'autoconf --version'.  The first line of output should read 
'autoconf (GNU Autoconf) 2.53'.  If the install was not successful,
go back and read README and INSTALL for more help.

If the install was sucessful, the tar file and the expanded autoconf-2.53
directory can be deleted.

To install Automake, follow the same procedure as for Autoconf except:
-Replace 'autoconf' with 'automake'.  
-Keep in mind that the proper version of Automake is 1.5.
-automake-1.5.tar.bz2 does not exist, choose automake-1.5.tar.gz.
